FVENS
=====

This is a cell-centered finite volume solver for the two-dimensional compressible Euler equations. Unstructured grids having both triangles and quadrangles are supported. It includes MUSCL (variable extrapolation) reconstruction using either Green-Gauss or weighted least-squares methods. WENO (weighted essentially non-oscillatory), MUSCL and linear reconstructions are availble with the Van Albada limiter for MUSCL reconstruction, and the Barth-Jespersen and Venkatakrishnan limiters for linear reconstruction. A number of numerical convective fluxes are available - local Lax-Friedrichs (Rusanov), Van Leer flux vector splitting, AUSM, HLL (Harten - Lax - Van Leer), HLLC and Roe-Pike. Modified average gradients are used for viscous fluxes. 

Currently, only steady-state problems are supported. Both explicit and implicit pseudo-time stepping are avaible. Explicit time-stepping uses the forward Euler scheme while implicit time stepping uses the backward Euler scheme; both use local time-steps. A number of linear solvers and preconditioners are available.

Building
--------
The following libraries are required:
- [Boost](http://www.boost.org/), present in the default package repositories of all GNU/Linux distributions
- The [Eigen](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) matrix library (version 3.3.4) - needs an environment variable called EIGEN_DIR to be set to the top-level Eigen directory
- [BLASTed](https://github.com/Slaedr/BLASTed) sparse linear algebra library - needs an environment variable called BLASTED_DIR to be set to the top level BLASTed directory.

OpenMP will be used if available (default builds of GCC on most GNU/Linux distributions have this, for instance).

To build, issue

		mkdir build && cd build
		cmake /path/to/src -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

and for a release build

		cmake /path/to/src -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DSSE=1

`-DNOOMP=1` should be appended if OpenMP is not available. Finally,

		make -j<N>

where '\<N\>' should be replaced by the number of threads to use for building. The build is known to work with recent versions of GCC C++ (5.4 and above) and Intel C++ (2017) compilers on GNU/Linux systems.

To run the unit tests, run `ctest` in your `build/tests` directory. The `tests` directory will have been generated by cmake upon building.

To build the Doxygen documentation, please type the following command in the doc/ directory:

		doxygen fvens_doxygen.cfg

Of course, this requires you to have [Doxygen](http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/index.html) installed. This will generate HTML documentation, which can be accessed through doc/html/index.htm.

Browsing the code
-----------------
A tags file is built when the code is built (if ctags is available), which makes navigation in Vim convenient. Using tags in Vim is [easy](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Browsing_programs_with_tags).

Running
-------
The executables should be called with the path to a control file as input. Set OMP_NUM_THREADS to the number of threads you want to use.

		export OMP_NUM_THREADS=4
		./fvens_steady /path/to/testcases/2dcylinder/implicit.control

Make sure to set the paths of input and output files appropriately (see the next section below). When running cases with implicit time stepping, remember to either use only one thread, or increase the number of asynchronous preconditioning sweeps (the last option in the control files) to 3 or 4 when using matrix storage type 'b' (recommended).

Control files
-------------
Examples are present in the various test cases' directories. Note that the locations of mesh files and output files should be relative to the directory from which the executable is called. The structure of the control files is currently very rigid; it is recommended to copy one of the existing cases' control file and modify it.

Known Issues
------------
- The HLLC flux implementation has roundoff error greater than machine epsilon.
- GMRES solver does not work.

---

Copyright (C) 2016, 2017 Aditya Kashi. See LICENSE.md for terms of redistribution with/without modification and those of linking.

        This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
        it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
        the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
        (at your option) any later version.

        This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
        but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
        MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
        GNU General Public License for more details.

        You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
        along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
